---
layout: layouts/bio.njk
title: Bio
description: About S. Carey
---

<a href="/" class="flex max-w-full flex-wrap justify-between p-16 mb-4">
  <img class="max-w-full w-full md:w-1/3 self-center" src="/img/logo.png" alt="S. Carey home" />
  <img class="self-center w-full md:w-1/2 max-w-full h-auto" src="/img/hundred-acres-text.png" />
</a>

<div style="max-width: 60ch" class="mx-auto leading-7">

At its heart, <b><i>Hundred Acres</i></b> -- the third full-length album
from Wisconsin singer/songwriter <b>S. Carey</b> -- finds him grounded
comfortably in his skin, but still with one foot in the stream. More
direct than ever, there is a wellspring of confidence in this new batch
of songs that lays bare the intricacies of life while keeping its ideas
uncomplicated.

Trained in jazz, Carey’s astute musicianship has never been in question
nor taken for granted, and the execution of
<i>Hundred Acres’</i> new ideas is seamless. He intentionally unburdened
himself from a more complicated instrumentation palate for these ten
songs, and, in effect, this modification to his approach brings the
content of the work much closer to a living reality. By giving equal
status to the indifference of nature and the concerns of a material
world -- while employing more pop-oriented structures instead of the
Steve Reich- or Talk Talk-ian repetitions of his past work -- a new
balance is struck that creates something unique. This in turn provides
equal status for the feeling that created each song, and the feeling
each song creates. Almost impossibly, there is more air between the
bars; Carey and his contributors sway like treetops in the wind,
remaining flexible enough that they never threaten to break.

Thematically, the album is a poetic treatise on what is truly necessary
in life, a surprisingly utilitarian art project that underscores the
power of enduring. The simplification of songwriting didn’t arrive out
of thin air; it came from the similar desire to reach for the utopia of
simplicity, for daily life to be unburdened of anxiety and tethered by
love. It is a way to say that returning to a more simple life, if even
just a little, can heal wounds and mend the cracks. This is leadership
by example rather than intervention, and for Carey, it starts at home.

In a way, these are his Kodak moments: dedications to his family laid
out as songs and reminders that life, like music, has a profoundly
ephemeral quality. One way to keep it is to let it flow over you. The
challenge is the balance between holding on and letting go, and
<i>Hundred Acres</i> is a master class in the trying. As a serious
artist entering his prime, Carey presents these songs perhaps more like
a Gerhard Richter <i>Florence</i> exhibition of masterfully over-painted
photos than an ad hoc collage on the family fridge. They are at first
easy-going with a wide-open front door, embracing simplicity in
structure and lyrical straight-forwardness, then suddenly hopelessly
beautiful, revealing, and breathtaking.

Perhaps no song better illustrates this ethos than “More I See,” an
exultant and strummy, snare-on-three gratification piece. This is echoed
by Carey, who says, “The best way to understand this song is through the
lyrics ‘When I’m naked, deciding…no I ain’t surviving,’ meaning you can
just live to live.”

“Yellowstone” highlights Carey’s storytelling. As he describes it, “Just
drive and see where you end up, get lost with the one you love.” The
lyric “We should lose our way before we lose our minds” speaks to this
immediacy by essentially saying “all we have is now, what are we waiting
for?"

On “Fool’s Gold,” Carey’s signature minimalism is intact with an
acoustic guitar serving as the backbone, propped up ever so slightly by
ambient keys and a lilting slide. The song showcases the newfound
difference between writing on a guitar versus a piano, as he has
traditionally done in the past. Says Carey, “This song is what started
the whole record…everything came out of it and the vibe it created.”

Storylines aside, let’s be clear about one thing: Sean Carey’s voice may
not hit with blunt force at first, but when it creeps up on you -- and
it will -- a soulful range is revealed, with a reedy, singular quality
that extends above the clouds. If you’re unconvinced, look no further
than album standout track “True North.” Here, Carey recites lyrics as
vows while he recounts the late hours of his first date with his wife.
It is a lucid love song to his family life, highlighted by the chorus,
“Only upright will I be.” As Carey says himself “How can you write a
record and not reference love?” Laid out over spare but lush-sounding
instrumentation and an uncommon phrasing within the 4/4 structure, this
is Carey’s musicianship and intention in a happy marriage, his heart and
head securely in concert.

From subject matter, to title, to artwork (again photographed by Cameron
Wittig), Carey puts the finishing touches on this sprawling vision of a
reality-defining naturalism with the title track, offering these lyrics
as an actionable treatise on sublimity:

<center>
<p>
  all we need<br />is a hundred acres and a row of seed<br />all we
  need<br />is a hundred acres and some room to breathe
</p>
</center>
<p>
There is an almost seditious beauty to it. As if to say, “If you want a
better world, you either do something about it or see through it.”
</p>

For as comfortable and confident as Carey is, a thoughtful questioning
of reality remains as his driving source of inspiration -- an attempt to
creatively process the highs, lows, and all of the moments in-between
with the help of musical processes. The moments between moments don’t
just stand for something; they are everything. And like all great art,
they provide further possibilities, personal interpretations for the
listener. Simply stated, over the course of three albums, two EPs, and a
few one-off singles, S. Carey has proven to be a reliable source of
beauty. It’s a safe claim to make that something so reliably beautiful
can also be called enduring. In an era when the shelf life of art is
typically measured in minutes, this accomplishment puts him in a rare
group of artists, seemingly unconcerned (but not indifferent) to passing
trends.

Written over the course of a few years, in between touring schedules and
the growth of his family, Carey recorded, mixed and produced
<i>Hundred Acres</i> at home and in various studios in rural Wisconsin
with support from his longtime collaborators Zach Hanson, Ben Lester,
and Jeremy Boettcher, as well as new contributions from Rob Moose
(yMusic), Casey Foubert (Sufjan Stevens) and Sophie Payten (Gordi).

{% Link "/" %}
scarey.org
{% endLink %}
